### Single Skill Execution
We’ll begin with tasks that require precisely one skill. In this case, planning consists of choosing the one skill most appropriate to address the task. Once the skill is selected, it must be correctly parameterized based on the skill definition. The skill is then executed, and its output is used as an input when composing the final response for the user. This can be seen in Figure 4-1 below (TODO: draft). While this is a minimal definition of a plan, it is the foundation from which we will build more complex patterns.

### Parallel Skill Execution
The first increase in complexity comes with skill parallelism. In some cases, it might be worth taking multiple actions on the input. For example, consider you need to look up a record for a patient. If your skillset includes multiple skills that access multiple sources of data, then it will be necessary to execute multiple actions to retrieve data from each of the sources. This increases the complexity of the problem because it is unclear how many skills need to be executed. A common approach is to retrieve a maximum number of skills that might be executed, say 5, using Semantic Skill Selection. Next, make a second call to a foundation model with each of these five skills, and ask it to select the five or fewer skills that are necessary to the problem, filtering down to the skills necessary for the task. Similarly, the foundation model can be called repeatedly with the additional context of which skills have already been selected until it chooses to add no fewer skills. Once selected, these skills are independently parameterized and executed. After all skills have been completed, their results are passed to the foundation model to draft a final response for the user. Figure 4-2 (TODO) illustrates this pattern.

### Chains
The next increase in complexity brings us to chains. Chains refer to sequences of actions that are executed one after another, with each action depending on the successful completion of the previous one. Planning chains involves determining the order in which actions should be performed to achieve a specific goal while ensuring that each action leads to the next without interruption. Chains are common in tasks that involve step-by-step processes or linear workflows.

The planning of chains requires careful consideration of the dependencies between actions, aiming to orchestrate a coherent flow of activity towards the desired outcome. It is highly recommended that a maximum length be set to the skill chains, as errors can compound down the length of the chain. So long as the task is not expected to fan out to multiple branching subtasks, chains provide an excellent tradeoff between adding planning for multiple skills with dependencies, while keeping the complexity relatively low.

### Trees
In more complex scenarios, tasks may require branching sequences of actions, where the agent must choose between multiple possible paths at each decision point. Planning trees involve exploring different branches of action possibilities, evaluating the consequences of each choice, and selecting the most promising path towards the goal. Trees are useful for tasks with multiple options or alternative courses of action. This structure enables the natural expansion that is involved in certain tasks, especially when a prior skill returns multiple outputs that need to be considered.

By increasing the skill topology from a chain to a tree, the skill structure contains the state of the execution. Compared to the chain structure, the agent has more options to choose from. In addition to selecting and executing a skill from its current position, the agent can determine that the task has been completed, decide that it is unable to complete the task, or it can traverse to another leaf node on the tree, and proceed from there. This structure reduces the likelihood that subtasks are forgotten by the agent. In this structure, key parameters to tune for your use case include the maximum number of skills per execution and the maximum depth of the tree.

### Graphs
Graphs represent interconnected networks of actions, where dependencies between tasks can be more complex and nonlinear. Graphs are an extension of trees, and while they enable the same expansion to multiple items as trees, they also enable topologies that consolidate multiple nodes together. This structure allows for an expressive representation that tracks the flow of information across multiple skill executions.

In addition to the tree structure, the graph structure adds a new action: consolidate. This new action enables the agent to connect the results from multiple previously completed skills. This is invaluable when especially complex reasoning is desirable, and the agent is expected to stitch together findings from multiple previous skills. While graphs are a more flexible and expressive structure, they are more complex to manage and traverse, and open up a new class of errors that the agent can make.

